---
template: SinglePost
title: For Kids
status: Published
date: 2020-04-27T09:53:28.204Z
featuredImage: ""
excerpt: For Kids
---
<!--StartFragment-->

**Storytime:**

**Storytime is held at the library each Thursday morning that the library is open at 10:30 am. University of Minnesota Morris TREC students are our readers during the school year. No cost or need to register ahead of time.**

**There is no story time held in August each year.**



**Hands on Animation Workshop for Kids- Thursday, April 5, 6:30 - 7:30 pm or Friday, April 6th from 4:00 - 5:00 pm**. Choose one or the other.

FREE! for Ages 9 - 17 but Please sign up with contact information.

Film and Video Director Cable Hardin will be teaching a workshop on simple animation at the Morris Public Library. Mr. Hardin will teach students the principals of movement and introduce basic techniqes of slow motion animation.

*This event is funded in part or in whole with monies from Minnesota's Art and Cultural Heritage fun. This is sponsored by the Morris Public Librry and Viking Library System.*



**Leo & Kathy Lara Concert- Monday, April 16, 7:00 - 8:00 pm** Enjoy Latin American Folk Music at the library. FREE. No pre registration.



**UMM Orchestra- Wednesday, April 25, 7:30 pm** FREE. No pre registration.



**Children’s Book Week will be celebrated at the Morris Public Library April 30 through May 6.**We will be featuring Gerald and Piggie from the***Elephant and Piggie***books by Mo Willems.We invite children and parents to join us for a fun family event to be held on**Wednesday, May 2 from 6:30 to 7:30 pm.**There will be stories, pictures with Gerald & Piggie, crafts, face painting and milk and cookies for a bedtime snack.There will be a drawing for Mo Willems books to given away at 7 pm that evening. Both characters will also be present for our regular**10:30 am story time the next morning, Thursday, May 3th**.There is no cost to attend any of these events which are sponsored by the library, Morris Friends of the Public library, Stevens County American Dairy Association, Stevens County Child Care Association and the Morris Women of Today.



***Reading Takes You Everywhere!***The Morris Public Library launches its summer reading adventure on June 4th.During the next two months, the library will host a range of free activities for youth to encourage and support a love of reading.Participants can win prizes for reaching their reading goals.

Story time, Book clubs, and Movie Matinees return this summer along with some new events.Special entertainers planned for this summer include storyteller**Rob Reid scheduled for June 29 at 10:30 am.**We will enjoy the**Hunter Marionettes presentation of*Feathers and Strings*on July 13 at 10:30 am.**Our last entertainer will be magician**Brian Richards on July 19 at 4 pm.**Rob Reid and the Hunter Marionettesare sponsored by the Morris Public Library, Viking Library System and funded in part or in whole with money from the Minnesota’s Art and Cultural Heritage fund.



**"BOOKS for CHILDREN**

[Grow Up Reading](http://www.growupreading.org/)

[Caldecott Awards](http://www.ala.org/ala/mgrps/divs/alsc/awardsgrants/bookmedia/caldecottmedal/caldecottwinners/caldecottmedal.cfm)

[Newbery Awards](http://www.ala.org/ala/mgrps/divs/alsc/awardsgrants/bookmedia/newberymedal/newberyhonors/newberymedal.cfm)

[TumbleBooks](http://www.tumblebooklibrary.com/autologin.aspx?userid=VIJJYsde4qZSBWT6%2bgObhA%3d%3d "TumbleBooks") - audio, animated e-books for children intended for Morris Public Library card-holders.

**Homework Helpers**

[Minnesota History - Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Minnesota)

[Minnesota Historical Society - educational resources](http://www.mnhs.org/school/)

[Tree (leaf) Identification](http://www.dnr.state.mn.us/forestry/education/treeforallseasons/nativetrees.html "Tree Leaf Identification")







**What Resources/Services does the library have for children & families?**

* **Books**- The library has thousands of books to choose from including picture books, easy readers, chapter books, young adult fiction, series fiction, non-fiction, and e-books for all ages.
* **Bilingual Books**- We have a section of easy reader and picture bilingual books as well as a small collection of adult & youth Spanish books.
* **Board Books**- The library’s board books are a great choice for toddlers.
* **Audio Books**- The library has audio books for all ages.We also have some children’s books with CD sets which can be checked out or listened to at our “Listening Center”.
* **Movies**- We have a large collection of children’s movies.All movies must be checked out on an adult’s card.**Check out is one week.**
* **TumbleBooks**- An online collection of audio, animated e-books for children is available.Visit the “For Kids” section of our website to access.
* **Computers**- The children’s area of the library has a computer for children with games on it.The library has 6 public computers with internet access; laptops; and wireless is available.
* **Reference**- Librarians can help you and your child find books to read or information for homework.
* **Tours**- Contact us if your group would like a tour.

**"Ready to Learn" Backpacks**

We will be hosting some of the Elbow Lake Library "Ready to Learn" back packs at the Morris Public Library. (Elbow Lake is running out of storage room and sharing these with us.) They are available to check out for 3 weeks. After a length time we will change them out for some different ones. The titles we have are:

Food, All About Spiders, Reading with Beatrix Potter, Big Challengers: Incarcertation

Plus remember we have the Stevens Community Biting Kit (Helpful resources to help your child learn NOT to bite).... AND "Cows Vacation Scrapbook" kit available for check out as well.

**Story Time**

Story time continues throughout the school year and into the summer on Thursday mornings that the library is open at 10:30 am. UMM TREC students lead story time during the school year. There is no story time during the month of August.

Contact the library at 320 589-1634 for more information.

<!--EndFragment-->